Docs (#416)
withstudiocms/studiocms: docs/src/content/docs/start-here/getting-started.mdx

StudioCMS uses `@astrojs/db` to connect to your libSQL database. You can use any libSQL provider or self-hosted libSQL server.

> If you are using the StudioCMS CLI, you can skip this step and use the CLI to create a new database if you have TursoCLI installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the StudioCMS CLI, you can skip this step and use the CLI to create a new database if you have the Turso CLI installed.
```

<ReadMore>For more information about the required environment variables see, [Database URL and Token for `@astrojs/db`](/start-here/environment-variables/#database-url-and-token-for-astrojsdb)</ReadMore>

<ReadMore>For more information about all the potential libSQL options (including local files) see [Astro Docs: Remote URL configuration options](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/astro-db/#remote-url-configuration-options)</ReadMore>

## Creating a StudioCMS project

<Tabs syncKey='install-method'>

<TabItem label="StudioCMS CLI" icon="rocket">

    1. Creating a StudioCMS Project using the create command

        To create a new Astro project with StudioCMS using one of our pre-made templates, simply run the following command in your terminal:

            <PackageManagers type="create" pkg="studiocms@latest" />

        After running the command, you'll be prompted to answer a few questions about your project. Once completed, the CLI will create a new Astro project with StudioCMS in the specified directory.

>         If all goes well, you will be prompted to follow the next steps, which includes ensuring your environment variables are set correctly and running the project to complete the setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Afterward, you will be prompted to follow the next steps, which includes ensuring your environment variables are set correctly and running the project to complete the setup.
```

    2. After running the CLI, make sure that your `astro.config.mjs` fle is correctly configured:

       ```ts twoslash title="astro.config.mjs" {2-4,11-12}
       import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
       import db from '@astrojs/db';
       import node from '@astrojs/node';
       import studioCMS from 'studiocms';

       export default defineConfig({
           site: 'https://demo.studiocms.dev/',
           output: 'server',
           adapter: node({ mode: "standalone" }),
           integrations: [
               db(),
               studioCMS(),
           ],
       });
       ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Astro Method" icon='astro'>

    {/* <Steps> Note: For some reason this breaks placement of EC-Twoslash popups... must investigate */}

    1. Creating a new Astro project

        To create a new Astro project, simply run the following command in your terminal:

            <PackageManagers type="create" pkg="astro@latest" />

        After running the command, you'll be prompted to answer a few questions about your project. Once completed, the CLI will create a new Astro project in the specified directory.

>         If all goes well, you should see a “Liftoff confirmed. Explore your project!” message followed by some recommended next steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        You should see a “Liftoff confirmed. Explore your project!” message followed by some recommended next steps.
```

    {/* <Steps> */}

    1. Creating a new Astro project

        To create a new Astro project, simply run the following command in your terminal:

            <PackageManagers type="create" pkg="astro@latest" />

        After running the command, you'll be prompted to answer a few questions about your project. Once completed, the CLI will create a new Astro project in the specified directory.

>         If all goes well, you should see a “Liftoff confirmed. Explore your project!” message followed by some recommended next steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        You should see a “Liftoff confirmed. Explore your project!” message followed by some recommended next steps.
```

Please note that the `site` option in the `astro.config.mjs` file is required for StudioCMS to work correctly. You can set this to your site's URL or a placeholder URL. (i.e. `https://demo.studiocms.xyz/` or `http://localhost:4321/`)

<Aside type="note" title="Adapter Required">

> StudioCMS requires an Astro Adapter to work correctly. Make sure to set an adapter that supports SSR Routes in your `astro.config.mjs` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
StudioCMS requires an [Astro Adapter](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/on-demand-rendering/#server-adapters) to work correctly. Make sure to set an adapter that supports SSR Routes in your `astro.config.mjs` file.
```
